Different types of businesses

A) Have a good product with a good margin and sell it - dyson, apple - Apple is particularly nice because of the increase in weight every time you buy it, to maintain margins you need to have a consistantly noticable difference
B) Using the internet to cut out margin - Made, Everlane - may as well choose high end products / traditionally expensive products, fashion - cheap - done with Primart, is same as top one, but difference can be less, difference is process
C) Have a situation with assymetric information and bridge it - airbnb, o-desk
---> Gap of information needs to be big enough - airbnb vs office space
---> PR is this
Lots meets lots (marketplace) - airbnb + etsy + amazon (latter two have to do stuff to keep their position)
Assymetric information & convienence - price comparisons
Where are property websites in this? - Effect of margin (why we haven't seen a breakout shopping price comparison site? / not one that has IPOed)
Flow - magazine bussinesses {FB, Twitter, Magazines, ProductHunt} Low margin, high volume
Flow - people have to use it on a very regular basis and the cost of creating should be small.
Messaging - who knows? payments - actually paying to use the product (whatsapp)
Advertising - connecting those with brands & margins to flow
Having a shop - selling someone else's good with a margin
Different types of asymetric information
-Location
--> Physical 
--> Digital (price comparison) - this could work - margins are good
--> Trust - trust-a-trader, cleaners, babysitters (too much trust), taskrabit (builds on top of this)
Utility - telephones, water
SAAS - where does this fit in? 
What is Stripe? A schelp in the way of profit. Money is the fundemental part of profit. 
Tools to get to profit, similar to poker teaching. You learn / can do something with more ease and then make more money.
What is drop box? an essential that is better...
Advetsing is a tool to get you profit. Work on the supply first... (locations to get profit) 'Get your brand felt'
What's a money transfer business? Proximitity?

Am I a user?

What is a todo list app on this list? What is a photo editing app?

Reduce risk - hire a contractor, stream a service - tend to be essentials


Essentials - Birth!!!! Pull your hair out problem. Not much competition. No tech competition. Quite high margins. Means ? 
Don't know enough about it - A), B) and C) are possibilites. C) is easiest, need to make it a monopoly. The best comparison site. Reviews etc...

Comparison - needs the doctors on there, 'set up a skype call'
Zoopla gives people their own phone lines with premium rate
Or contact form to get in touch

There will be magazine unbudling

Mixer - I would find it useful and fun, find new friends. 
£1/month
Lonliness is a strong motivator!

Online dating is more 'profit' in your life. Same as a SAAS.




Seeing where an idea fits in. 

There are several different types of businesses and each different type tends to follow a set and well established trend. 

*Type One: Product Businesses*

You have a (mainly physical) product with a good margin and you sell it .

To maintain this type of business you need a combination of the following: 
- Persistant physical product differentiators (backed up by pattent / uncompetable technology)
- A strong brand

Examples: Apple, Dyson, Beats(ish) (have both), Louis Vuitton (has brand), Plexus PLC (has physical differentators)

Interesting point: Apple is a physical product with a strong retention / compounding sales mechanism. When you buy one product you're more likely to buy more / stick with Apple.

*Type Two: Product Businesses with Digital Twists*

Take a Type One business and use technology to cut out unnessacary steps of margin. 

Examples: Everlane (high-end! clothing, no middle man), Made (high-end! furniture, no middle man), Hem (high-end! (custom) furniture, no measuring / personalisation costs)

*Note:*

If you're doing a new product type, don't do a Type Two. Do this only with established products. Doing this with a brand new product (e.g the Dyson when it first landed) you're missing a trick. 

This Type Two method means you're able to price lower, which you hope will result in a compensating level of customer attraction to counteract for the lack of distibution options. If you have a product that will attract people because of it's newness - then keep your margins high and maximise your distribution options. 

*Type Three: 'Fundemental' web businesses*

Take something that people are doing in the physical world and take it to the web. Many of these were set up in the 90s and I believe these have now all been done.

Examples: Go shopping (Amazon), Sell things (Ebay), etc...

*Type Four: Find a discovery situation with assymmetric information and bridge it*

The bigger the gap / the more skilled you are at effectivly bridging the gap, the better. These two mechanisms combine together to create a company's 'lock' on the information gap.

Different types of information gaps:
- Physical - hard for one side to bridge the gap to another at all
- Digital - to bridge the gap is possible (supply side has an easily accessible presenece) but takes time / effort
- (Trust) - knowing who to trust from the avaliable options 

Many 'bridging' businesses tend to combine a combination of these gaps. 

How you make money with an assymmetric information business depends on the security of your gap. The more secure, the more 'friendly' you can be in terms of making money. 

The size of business you can become depends on your lock on the gap, the frequenceny of use, and naturally, the size of commisions available. 

Examples:

Airbnb: Physical, (semi) Digital, Trust

Zoopla: Digital

Price Comparison / Aggregator Websties: Digital

Etsy: Physical, Digital

Interesting comaprisons between Airbnb and Zoopla:

The information gap that Airbnb has is far bigger than the gap that Zoopla has. Because of this there are stark differences in the way that each makes money. 

Airbnb's Gap: 
- The gap is physical (there is basically no way for you to contact someone in another country who is looking to rent their room out to you) 
- Frist contact happens at the point of activation (you don't meet that person until you are actually in the country and about to enter their room, you are not really able to build a relationship and exclude airbnb from its piece of the pie)
- Trust is important and airbnb owns it (reviews and insurace are both very important and airbnb provides both sides with this - this adds to their 'lock' of the informaiton gap)
- Note: Good UX and a good brand are both additional 'locks'.

Airbnb makes money in the most friendly way: It doesn't charge for you to list your room or for you to browse rooms that are available, but only at the transaction stage (where people are the least 'angry' about paying a third party - 'no win, no fee')

Zoopla's Gap:
- The gap is not phyiscal (you can go and visit estate agents on your local high street, you can contact them directly - and see the properties they have listed - at their own websites)
- First contact happens way before the point of activation (you meet your estate agent, see several properties and work face to face with that agent before you spend any money - Zoopla is out of the loop)
- Trust is not owned by Zoopla (you'll get a feel for it when you meet the individuals - although adding estate agent reviews would add to Zoopla's 'lock' on the gap)
- Note: Zoopla has good UX and a strong brand to add to it's 'lock'.

Zoopla makes money in a reasonably aggressive way: It charges for leads. To contact an estate agent you call them on a speical 'Zoopla number' which is different to the estate agents actual telephone number (if you look up their website), alternativly you fill out a form on the Zoopla website which is sent within Zoopla's 'lock' to the estate agents. Zoopla charges the estate agent every time one of these actions takes place. 

Because the information gap is smaller than Airbnb's, Zoopla has to move its mechanism for profit up the sales pipe line. The higher profit it up the sales pipeline, the more 'angry' one side is, and the less secure your 'lock' is. See: http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/544bbbca-0cb0-11e4-90fa-00144feabdc0.html#axzz3NmxUfLUZ

Price Comparison / Aggregator Sites: Digital

While Zoopla's lock is less secure than Airbnbs, it still managed to get to a sufficient size to IPO at at £1BN valluation. A success by anyone's definition. So why was Zoopla able to IPO? And why have we yet to see a 'price comparison / aggregator webste' IPO?

A Price Comparison / Aggregator Website's Gap:
- The gap is purely digital, not too big and a bit nuanced. 

The nuanced nature of the gap: There are two differnt types of products in this field - 1) Homogenous (identical) products where the product's differentators are the terms that come with it / the absolute price (credit cards, insurance, electronics) 2) Branded emotional products (fashion) where each product's feel is different and the problem is doing the leg-work to find *the* product that connects with you emotionally.

The gap is not too big: In this world it is easy to go directly to the source (to an individual credit card's website - it's just a Google away and there aren't too many of them) and it's sometimes the best option (if you like a certain style of clothing - go directly to that retailer's store).

Zoopla's gap is far less nuanced and is much bigger; Few estate agents are known for a specific 'style' of house, so you want to see the content from everyone. There are many small family run estate agents and few 'megga' ones, so it pays to see the content from everyone. The product (a house) is a very big investment, therefore maxium research is desired (not true when buying a jumper).

- Margins: 
An estate agent will frequently make ~£2,000+ every time it sells a property, and often far far more. A clothing or electronics retailer will make a magnitude less than that. One can pay more for leads than the other

- Technical Maturity:
You can't (easily) buy a house online, but you can comfortabbly buy jeans. Because of that the comparison / aggergator site can be kept within the 'loop' of the purchase, and the retailer will only be chared for the lead if the transaction happens. People buy less than they view (e.g you'll probably view 15 properties but buy only one), so being charged on the transaction instead of on the lead generation is worse. However, this more 'friendly' extraction of money does mean that retailers are less angry about the existance of comparison / aggregator websites.

In summary: Price comparison websites don't solve as large of a problem, have lower margins and can make money in a less fruitful way. That's why we haven't seen one IPO.

Why Etsy is different:
- Allows for discovery of home made goods with smaller number of SKUs. There are MANY of these shops. Etsy solves a bigger problem.

*Type Five: Flow Businesses*

This builds on thinking from Chris Dixon's post about Push and Pull businesses: http://cdixon.org/2014/12/21/two-eras-of-the-internet-pull-and-push/

Flow businesses are businesses based on seeing new things on a reccuring basis. 

Examples: Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat, Magazines

These businesses are free to use and tend to make their money from advertising. They rely on extremely high levels of frequency and do best when the cost of content production is zero - user generated content is great for this.

Magazines / newspapers are feeling the pintch because the revenue from advertising is low on a per impression basis and the cost of generating content is high. 

Note: I belive that magazines are also experiencing an unbundling. This happens when a company takes a core feature of a magazine and makes it into a stand alone concept. Product Hunt has done this for company discovery from tech magazines. It has also removed the cost of journalists. I belive it will be acquired by a media corporation (e.g. AOL / TechCrunch).

*Type Six: Shleps In The Way Of 'Profit'*

I put profit in speach marks because I belive that we're not only talking about financial profit, but also 'life profit'.

These are services that make either making money or acheiving a goal in life easier / faster. 

Examples: Stripe, Advertising, Follow Unfollow, Accounting Software, Cardrunners, Codecademy, Duolingo, Tinder, OKCupid, Freezing Eggs / IVF Treatment

In general, people are willing to pay for these services. 

Going through the examples: 

Stripe: Makes making money easier / faster. It controls the flow of the basic profit element (money) so it can charge in a very friendly way (transaction basis).

Advertising: Makes cusomter acqusition easier / faster. You pay for it on a CPM / CPC basis. CPM includes 'brand effect' of being seen in price.

Follow Unfollow: akes cusomter acqusition easier / faster. You pay for it on a monthly basis.

Accounting Software: Saves time / reduces cost of hiring an expert. You pay for it on a monthly basis.

Cardrunners (online poker training): Makes making money easier / faster. You pay for it on a monthly basis.

Codecademy: Makes learning to code easier > Helps you make money / create (life profit). You don't pay for it. They don't have a business model yet. 

Duolingo: Makes learning a lanugage easier > Makes you more employable / gives 'life profit' to you. You don't pay for it. They make money via translations in a B2B arm. An AMAZING business. Removes the traditional cost by being clever. 

Tinder: Makes finding a mate / partner easier - life profit. You can pay for a premium version. Doesn't really have a business model yet.

OKCupid: Makes finding a mate / partner easier - life profit. You can pay for a premium version. You pay for it through being exposed to adverts. 

Freezing Eggs / IVF Treatment: Increases chance of firtlity not ready to have a baby yet / that do not have a partner yet. Babies are important = 'life profit'. People pay (a lot) for it. 

*Thinking through ideas:*

Imporant things to discuss:
- Importance of Problem - 'pull your hair out' problem vs nice to have
- Plausability / What is the demand
- Margins
- Existing Copmetition
- Ease of customer acqusition (function of Margins and virality)
- Are we users of the product?
- Ease of building the product





They are free for the which results in small profit / person levels in the digital space.   


Google: Digital

PR: Knowledge

Codecademy: Knowledge

There is some crossover here with online dating! It's a market place!








Different notes:

At the highest level, user acquisition consists of two steps:
Creating something desirable enough that some subset of the human population wants it
Getting in front of those people in the right way

Always start with the target market.
Get in the mind of the people you want to reach.
talk with someone who falls in your target market
Find where the people you want to reach congregate
finding a keyword or hashtag that unintentionally ends up belonging to a specific group.
Now we go into creation mode with a great understanding of how to build up a world that they want to be a part of.
Our end goal will be to get in front of the market we’ve found, but more importantly than that we have to have a home for them to land.
we have the perfect profile set up to drive traffic to our store/product/whatever,
 Our hopes are that if they see a mention of our profile they’ll visit, hopefully follow us, and maybe check out what we’re selling. If everything is done right, we should be able to watch traffic flow from our profile to our website, and sales converting as a result.
 Since mobile purchasing is hard, in the beginning we set up a landing page where they could drop an email address for 20% off.
four main ways I could contact him using Instagram:

Tag him in a photo
Comment on his photo
Like his photos
Follow him

Tagging in a photo

This is spammy and annoying. Don’t tag me in photos if you don’t know me.

Commenting on photos

Liking photos

Liking photos is easy, and no one hates it when others like their photos, though it’s possible the likes will be buried amongst dozens of other likes. But I know that I’ll see someone who liked my photos and go check theirs out all the time, so this isn’t a bad strategy.

Following

The most obvious and easiest way would be following. You show up independently to them for a few minutes, and they’ll most likely check you out. Having more followers is a good thing as well.

After about a day of experimentation and testing, we found the method that works the best. We called it “follow like like like.” The process is simple – go to the most recent section for the hashtag we chose to target and choose the top picture. Follow that account, go to their photos, and like their most recent three.

This shows the user that not only did someone who is kind of like them follow them, but they also dug a little bit and really liked what they found.

Here’s the crazy part: When we did this, the follow-back percentage approached 25%. Meaning for every four people we followed, one would follow us back. And, more importantly, we could see a decent amount of traffic going through to the pre-launch landing page we had set up.

We did this for a week before setting the product live, and by the end of the week we had 10,000 followers

Launch day came, and, as stated before, the company sold over $4,000 of inventory. 

It’s always a good rule of thumb to do everything in marketing manually first. Once you see that your method is working, it’s time to automate and scale.

This is often spammy and annoying, but could possibly be pulled off well. 



***

Website specifications:
Purpose of the document
Description of the project
Front-end functionality
Common features
Sitemap and website structure
Description of every website page
Wireframes (home page and at least 2 other important pages)
Miscellaneous functionality
Back-end functionality
Use cases
Conclusion
- See more at: http://www.bluefountainmedia.com/blog/how-to-write-a-specifications-document/#sthash.rqEKsZzf.dpuf



What I've learned building medium so far - by Ev Williams

The reason we did our preview launch in August was simply to get something out the door. As soon as we picked the date and a minimal feature set


***

Dig in the right places
Be dirty (messy prototypes)
Set dates ahead of time to talk to users
schedule every 2 weeks
schedule at the start, before we've designed anything
do it if you're ready or not
it injects fresh data inside the project - that is essential 
Teams don't walk aroung going "we don't really know stuff"

All = bigger risks
